---

name: "Community & Governance"
date: '2023-04-18'
days: 1
venueName: 'Radisson Grand Place, Brussels'
venueAddress: ''
label: All Welcome
description: >-
  Room: Amsterdam + Luxembourg.
  
  This track is about the IPFS community and how we work together to govern IPFS standards and our broader ecosystem: specifications, community organizing, and dweb policy & regulation. What's the latest on the IPFS protocol and governance? What specific problems do we face regarding existing regulation? How can we have better local communities? How do we make the dweb a robust, sustainable commons?  
  
  [View video playlist](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLuhRWgmPaHtTIFbOVO5YfXkoFg6wIGbBN)
priority: 2
attendees: 50
org: ''
dri: 'Robin Berjon'
times: '10:00 AM - 4:00 PM'

timeslots:
  - time: '10:00 - 10:00'
    speakers: 'Robin Berjon'
    title: "WELCOME + OPENING"
    description: "

[View video](https://youtu.be/U2qvvQxIdws)"

  - time: '10:15 - 11:00'
    speakers: 'Robin Berjon'
    title: "What Should We Governance?"
    description: "In order to keep IPFS and its broader ecosystem pushing in a direction that benefits all people, to support impactful collective action and ownership, and to avoid it being captured by larger players we need to deploy matching governance capabilities. The goal of this workshop is to produce a list of issues and pain points regarding governance of the IPFS ecosystem and to use that as a launching point for work on building robust cooperation.

[View video](https://youtu.be/svqlHO3K_RQ)"

  - time: '10:50 - 11:05'
    speakers: 'Henrique Dias'
    title: "Interplanetary Specs"
    description: "We've been working on producing and publishing standards for the stack. This is a quick overview of what we have and where we're at. What else should we be doing in this space?

[View video](https://youtu.be/vQVnjEIPuCE)"

  - time: '11:10 - 11:25'
    speakers: 'lidel'
    title: "ipfs/specs and IPIPs: Year in Review"
    description: "This will be a ~10m lightning talk with rapid-fire of IPIPs and specs work that happened since we announced IPIP process year ago in Iceland.

[View slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/14Y9FqM8FLjLOnGjImVDDDHeNqb_CAIWttc2XKCgPTBE/edit?usp=sharing)

[View video](https://youtu.be/WcHlV6sQuDI)"

  - time: '11:30 - 11:45'
    speakers: 'Bastien Dehaynin'
    title: "Starmaps: a cross-team roadmapping tool"
    description: "I would like to share Starmaps, a tool developed by Protocol Labs that is designed for roadmapping based on Github issues. 

It is especially good to render cross-teams/projects roadmaps, which is perfect to improve visibility inside the network and communicate dependencies more easily. 

We have started using it at Fission, and our goal is to have as many projects as possible from the PLN to be rendered in a single Starmaps in which you could navigate and look at the dependencies between projects.

I think I would need 5-10 minutes (questions aside) to present this.

[View video]( https://youtu.be/_HoLDQreF28)"

  - time: '11:50 - 12:35'
    speakers: 'Cade Diehm'
    title: "Memory in Uncertainty: IPFS and digital preservation in the multi-crisis present"
    description: "How do we save the past in a violent present for an uncertain future? How does IPFS challenge, strengthen or endanger digital archival efforts? How is IPFS vulnerable to weaponised design? 

This talk presents the findings of the 2022 Filecoin-supported collaboration between New Design Congress and Webrecorder, highlighting how the DWeb landscape, its technologies and institutions are out of step with the realities of rising instability and complexity of the 21st century -- and what we can do today to begin to address these problems. 

[View slides](https://desk.undersco.re/s/wP3tpexQT5LR4Xb)

[View video](https://youtu.be/TdiQGXSZmCk)"

  - time: '12:30 - 13:30'
    speakers: 'None '
    title: "LUNCH"
    description: "1 hour"

  - time: '13:30 - 13:45'
    speakers: 'Boris Mann'
    title: "Open Source governance, funding, etc."
    description: "[Boris to fill out]

[View video](https://youtu.be/PysiACKo1dI)"

  - time: '13:50 - 14:05'
    speakers: 'Robin Berjon'
    title: " Decentralized Data Compliance"
    description: "A quick tour of the problems we face with decentralised data compliance, and the work of the  Decentralized Data Compliance Working Group.

[View slides](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafybeica7jkdzrv7qx6mzevcrprh6wq7zuizeq2cwinc2l4m2rlv43qeou/ddc.key)

[View video](https://youtu.be/bIlji91KEFQ)"

  - time: '14:10 - 15:40'
    speakers: 'Yuni Graham'
    title: "IPFS Camp Committee"
    description: "It may seem like there is plenty of time, but IPFS Camp is scheduled for later this fall and a large event such as IPFS Camp, needs quite a bit of planning runway. We need volunteers to be a part of the (content) planning committee. This would require significant investment in terms of time and energy, but you will be rewarding the IPFS Community with a spectacular, well planned event and set us up for future IPFS Camp successes. 

Additionally, let's think ahead on what content we know we'd like to see, new areas of discussion we think could bridge over to bring in new faces, and companies we'd like to see there who may not have joined in the past. Is there something from last year you'd like to see expanded upon? Let's talk. 

[View slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/13d05vfTSZE5fBeeS4K9FXJOI9xOAsKieO0pyJZTLrRM/edit?usp=sharing)

[View video](https://youtu.be/U5u54jwOg6k)"

  - time: '15:30 - 16:00'
    speakers: 'None '
    title: "BREAK"
    description: "45 minutes"

  - time: '16:00 - 16:45'
    speakers: 'Yuni Graham'
    title: "IPFS + Friends Cafe "
    description: "This session is a discussion circle for people interested or who can commit to organizing IPFS + Friends Cafe community events in their city. The idea is to have a cohort of people who can commit to at least 2x events a year (perhaps distributed equidistant between IPFS Thing and IPFS Camp) to help keep up the momentum in between our two largest IPFS events of the year. 

miwa (PL) can sponsor a coffeeshop / popup, assist with logistical organization and coordinate some speakers from PL. ex: EthCC is fast approaching, would love someone local to commit to organizing content for a one day or half day IPFS + Friends event. 

[View slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1PfPj8ZZkZxWiAIdyYW5bXrqUTJBNU4WBdiqvEHV-l2A/edit?usp=sharing)

[View video](https://youtu.be/FII_9VTgDy8)"

---